#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass memoir
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language ngerman
\language_package none
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding default
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 0
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 0
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 0
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language german
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter*
Abstract
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The topic of this scientific work is Energy Harvesting in the context of
 a bicycle.
 The question is, if it is possible to use a riding bicycle as an energy
 source.
 This is an essential topic at present time because of the large consumption
 of energy.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

The aim of this work is to develop a battery-less speed sensor which displays
 the current velocity on a smartphone.
 The hardware should be able to generate energy from the wheel rotation,
 capture the round-trip time and transmit this time to a smartphone which
 calculates and displays the speed.
 The research methods are calculations, simulations and especially practical
 experiments.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The whole System will be split up into four subsystems.
 These are the energy generation, the energy management, the data processing
 and the data display.
 The energy should be generated by induction.
 The energy will be managed by a power management chip which should be configure
d and tested on the developed hardware.
 In a further step an embedded system will processing and sending the incoming
 data in form of a time to a smartphone.
 All this components are supplied by the generated energy.
 The final step is to program an application that can receive and display
 the data.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The energy will be generated by a magnet that induces a voltage into a coil.
 Because of the power management chip the voltage has to be limited to a
 DC voltage.
 This problem is solved by a fullwave rectifier and diodes which limit the
 voltage.
 The power management chip could be successfully configured and the embedded
 system is able to capture the round-trip time and send it to a smartphone.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The result shows that enough energy can be generated for a speed sensor.
 The hardware could be improved to generate and save more energy.
 Also the software could be developed with the aim to consume less energy.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
